Monitoring Improvements -- connecting to Cloud (#2674)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/influxdb-templates/monitor.md

  Monitor your InfluxDB OSS instance using InfluxDB Cloud and
  a pre-built InfluxDB template.
menu:
  influxdb_2_0:
    parent: InfluxDB templates
    name: Monitor InfluxDB OSS
weight: 102
influxdb/v2.0/tags: [templates, monitor]
related:
  - /influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/apply/
  - /influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/template/
---

Use [InfluxDB Cloud](/influxdb/cloud/), the [InfluxDB Open Source (OSS) Metrics template](https://github.com/influxdata/community-templates/tree/master/influxdb2_oss_metrics), and Telegraf to monitor one or more InfluxDB OSS instances.

Do the following:

1. [Review requirements](#review-requirements)
2. [Install the InfluxDB OSS Monitoring template](#install-the-influxdb-oss-monitoring-template)
3. [Set up InfluxDB OSS for monitoring](#set-up-influxdb-oss-for-monitoring)
4. [Set up Telegraf](#set-up-telegraf)
5. [View the Monitoring dashboard](#view-the-monitoring-dashboard)
6. (Optional) [Alert when metrics stop reporting](#alert-when-metrics-stop-reporting)

## Review requirements

Before you begin, make sure you have access to the following:

 - InfluxDB Cloud account ([sign up for free here](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/signup))

>  - Command line access to a machine [running InfluxDB OSS 2.x](/influxdb/v2.0/install/) and permissions to install Telegraf on this machine

Reviewer: Users must have command line access to start Telegraf. This isn't saying they need the `influx` CLI, just access to a command line on the same machine that's running InfluxDB

      {{% note %}}
 Use the provided parameter value, `oss_metrics`, for the bucket to maintain compatibility with the included dashboard in the template. We recommend setting an environment variable for the API token on each machine you plan to gather metrics from using Telegraf. This token allows Telegraf to fetch the configuration and write data to your instance.
      {{% /note %}}

   4. Under `[[inputs.prometheus]]` update parameters to tell Telegraf how to scrape metrics from the `/metrics` endpoint of each InfluxDB OSS instance. You'll find the default InfluxDB OSS URL here, but if you're using unique URLs or have security set up for your `/metrics` endpoint, configure those options here and save the updated configuration.

      For more information about customizing Telegraf, see [Telegraf configuration documentation](/telegraf/latest/administration/configuration/#global-tags).

## Set up Telegraf

Set up Telegraf to scrape metrics from InfluxDB OSS to send to your InfluxDB Cloud account.

On each InfluxDB OSS instance you want to monitor, do the following:

1. [In your InfluxDB Cloud account](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/), go to **Load Data > Telegraf**.

> 2. Under **Scrape InfluxDB OSS Metrics**, click **Setup Instructions**, and complete the Telegraf Setup instructions.

Reviewer 2: Is this doing something different than what we're telling them to do above in lines 71-74?

      {{% note %}}

> For your API token, generate a new token or use an existing All Access token. If you run Telegraf as a service, edit your init script to set the environment variable and ensure its available to the service.

Reviewer 2: Should we link to how to run Telegraf as a service here? A search in docs only results in [Running Telegraf as a Windows service](https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.19/administration/windows_service/), which is currently in need of an update. Can folks run Telegraf as a Linux service or other?

---
title: Monitor InfluxDB OSS using a template
description: >
  Monitor your InfluxDB OSS instance using InfluxDB Cloud and
  a pre-built InfluxDB template.
menu:
  influxdb_2_0:

>     parent: InfluxDB templates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    parent: Monitor with templates
```

## Install the InfluxDB OSS Monitoring template

The InfluxDB OSS Monitoring template includes a Telegraf configuration and a dashboard, making it easy to set up and monitor OSS.

1. [Log into your InfluxDB Cloud account](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/), go to **Settings > Templates**, and enter the following template URL:

    `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/influxdata/community-templates/master/influxdb2_oss_metrics/influxdb2_oss_metrics.yml`

2. Click **Lookup Template**, and then click **Install Template**. InfluxDB Cloud imports the template, which includes the following resources:
   - Dashboard `InfluxDB OSS Metrics`
   - Telegraf configuration `scrape-infludb-oss-telegraf`
   - Bucket `oss_metrics`
   - Check `InfluxDB OSS Deadman`
   - Labels `influxdb2` and `prometheus`

## Set up InfluxDB OSS for monitoring

By default, InfluxDB OSS 2.x has a `/metrics` endpoint available, which exports Prometheus-style system metrics.

> 1. If you've changed the default settings to disable the `/metrics` endpoint, re-enable these settings.

Reviewer 2: Should we assume folks know how to re-enable default settings for the `/metrics` endpoint (eg, if someone else disabled)? And/or what’s the easiest way to check enable/disable/default settings?

      ```sh
      curl http://localhost:8086/metrics
      # HELP boltdb_reads_total Total number of boltdb reads
      # TYPE boltdb_reads_total counter
      boltdb_reads_total 41
      # HELP boltdb_writes_total Total number of boltdb writes
      # TYPE boltdb_writes_total counter
      boltdb_writes_total 28
      # HELP go_gc_duration_seconds A summary of the pause duration of garbage collection cycles.
      ...
      ```
3. Verify you have access to the `/metrics` endpoint for each monitored InfluxDB OSS instance so [Telegraf](/telegraf/latest/) can collect metrics.

4. Add your InfluxDB Cloud account information (url and organization) to your Telegraf configuration by doing the following:
   1. [In your InfluxDB Cloud account](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/), go to **Load Data > Telegraf**, and click the **InfluxDB Output Plugin** button.
   2. Copy the URL, token, organization, and bucket, close the window, and then click the **Scrape InfluxDB OSS Metrics** link.

>    3. Under `outputs.influxdb_v2`, replace `URL`, `token`, `organization`, and `bucket`, with your InfluxDB Cloud account information. These parameters use environment variables except for `bucket`.

Reviewer 2: How to set environment variables to Cloud info with CLI?

Reviewer: Environment variables are set in the OS environment, not with the `influx` CLI. There are multiple ways to set environment variables, but if you were to use just straight bash, it'd be:

```
export INFLUX_TOKEN=<YourAuthToken>
```

      {{% note %}}

>  Use the provided parameter value, `oss_metrics`, for the bucket to maintain compatibility with the included dashboard in the template. We recommend setting an environment variable for the API token on each machine you plan to gather metrics from using Telegraf. This token allows Telegraf to fetch the configuration and write data to your instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the InfluxDB OSS monitoring dashboard can display the recorded metrics, set the destination bucket name to `oss_metrics` in your `telegraf.conf`.
```

      {{% /note %}}

>    4. Under `[[inputs.prometheus]]` update parameters to tell Telegraf how to scrape metrics from the `/metrics` endpoint of each InfluxDB OSS instance. You'll find the default InfluxDB OSS URL here, but if you're using unique URLs or have security set up for your `/metrics` endpoint, configure those options here and save the updated configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. Add the [Prometheus input plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/release-1.19/plugins/inputs/prometheus/README.md) to your `telegraf.conf`. Specify your your InfluxDB OSS URL(s) in the `urls` parameter. For example:
   
    {{< keep-url >}}
     ```toml
     [[inputs.prometheus]]
       urls = ["http://localhost:8086/metrics"]
     ``` 
     
     If you're using unique URLs or have security set up for your `/metrics` endpoint, configure those options here and save the updated configuration.
```

>       For more information about customizing Telegraf, see [Telegraf configuration documentation](/telegraf/latest/administration/configuration/#global-tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For more information about customizing Telegraf, see [Configure Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/administration/configuration/#global-tags).
```

## Set up Telegraf

Set up Telegraf to scrape metrics from InfluxDB OSS to send to your InfluxDB Cloud account.

On each InfluxDB OSS instance you want to monitor, do the following:

1. [In your InfluxDB Cloud account](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/), go to **Load Data > Telegraf**.
2. Under **Scrape InfluxDB OSS Metrics**, click **Setup Instructions**, and complete the Telegraf Setup instructions.
      {{% note %}}
For your API token, generate a new token or use an existing All Access token. If you run Telegraf as a service, edit your init script to set the environment variable and ensure its available to the service.
      {{% /note %}}
   Telegraf runs quietly in the background (no immediate output appears), and Telegraf begins pushing metrics to your InfluxDB Cloud account.

## View the Monitoring dashboard

To see your data in real time, view the Monitoring dashboard.

> 1. In your InfluxDB Cloud account, select **Boards** (**Dashboards**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your **InfluxDB Cloud** account, select **Boards** (**Dashboards**).
```

    {{< nav-icon "dashboards" >}}

> 2. Click **InfluxDB OSS Metrics**. Metrics appear in your dashboard.

Reviewer 2: I don't see metrics in my dashboard...add what to check if you don't see metrics?

Reviewer: They should check the `telegraf` agent logs for any errors.

Customize your monitoring dashboard as needed. For example, send an alert in the following cases:
- Users create a new task or bucket

> - You're testing machine limits

Reviewer 2: examples for how to do?

Reviewer: These aren't really dashboard related. These are task related.

- [Metrics stop reporting](#alert-when-metrics-stop-reporting)

## Alert when metrics stop reporting

> To ensure data is always flowing from your InfluxDB OSS instances into your InfluxDB Cloud account, create an alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure data is always flowing from your InfluxDB OSS instances into your InfluxDB Cloud account, create a deadman alert.
```

> 1. The Monitoring template includes a [deadman check](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/checks/create/#deadman-check); to view it by navigating to the `Alerts` section of your InfluxDB Cloud account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Monitoring template includes a [deadman check](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/checks/create/#deadman-check) that checks to see that metrics are reported at regular intervals. To view the deadman check, click **Alerts** in the navigation bar of your **InfluxDB Cloud** account.

    {{< nav-icon "alerts" >}}

```

{{< img-hd src="/img/influxdb/2-0-monitor-oss-deadman.png" />}}

> The deadman check has been running in the background from the time you installed the template. To alert when something is down, configure a notification rule and endpoint. Use [Slack Webhooks](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) to quickly send messages to any Slack channel you look at, or upgrade your InfluxDB Cloud account to get access to Pagerduty and HTTP post endpoints. For more information, see how to [configure a Slack endpoint](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/notification-endpoints/create/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To alert when something metrics stop reporting, configure a notification rule and endpoint. Use [Slack Webhooks](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) to quickly send messages to any Slack channel, or u[pgrade your InfluxDB Cloud account](/influxdb/cloud/account-management/billing/#upgrade-to-usage-based-plan) to get access to Pagerduty and HTTP post endpoints. For more information, see how to [configure a Slack endpoint](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/notification-endpoints/create/).
```

> Finally, the Slack Endpoint can be used to create a [Notification Rule](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/notification-rules/create/) to send you a 
> message whenever there is an outage. Check out the documentation for [creating Notification rules in the UI](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/notification-rules/create/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Create a notification rule](/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/notification-rules/create/) to send a 
message to a specified notification endpoint whenever there is an outage.
```

1. [Log into your InfluxDB Cloud account](https://cloud2.influxdata.com/), go to **Settings > Templates**, and enter the following template URL:

    ```
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/influxdata/community-templates/master/influxdb2_oss_metrics/influxdb2_oss_metrics.yml
    ```

2. Click **Lookup Template**, and then click **Install Template**. InfluxDB Cloud imports the template, which includes the following resources:
   - Dashboard `InfluxDB OSS Metrics`
   - Telegraf configuration `scrape-influxdb-oss-telegraf`
   - Bucket `oss_metrics`
   - Check `InfluxDB OSS Deadman`
   - Labels `influxdb2` and `prometheus`

## Set up InfluxDB OSS for monitoring

By default, InfluxDB OSS 2.x has a `/metrics` endpoint available, which exports Prometheus-style system metrics.

1. If you've changed the default settings to disable the `/metrics` endpoint, [re-enable these settings](/{{< latest "influxdb" >}}/reference/config-options/#metrics-disabled).
2. To view InfluxDB OSS system metrics in your browser, navigate to the `/metrics` endpoint of your InfluxDB OSS instance: 

    ```
    http://localhost:8086/metrics
    ```

    Or use `curl` to fetch metrics:

> ~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

      ```sh
      curl http://localhost:8086/metrics
      # HELP boltdb_reads_total Total number of boltdb reads
      # TYPE boltdb_reads_total counter
      boltdb_reads_total 41
      # HELP boltdb_writes_total Total number of boltdb writes
      # TYPE boltdb_writes_total counter
      boltdb_writes_total 28
      # HELP go_gc_duration_seconds A summary of the pause duration of garbage collection cycles.
      ...
      ```

> 3. Verify the [Telegraf](/telegraf/latest/)agent has network access to the `/metrics` endpoint for each monitored InfluxDB OSS instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify the [Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/) agent has network access to the `/metrics` endpoint for each monitored InfluxDB OSS instance.
```
